---
layout: post
title: My decision to persue coding
---
<h4>A lesson in basic business principals:</h4>

In order to be successful in the business world, most people must do the following:

* Make yourself “Valuable”

This seems pretty strait forward, but it’s essential. If you want to be successful you need to be valuable. What determines your value is subjective, but the fact is that if you have value, you have leverage.

-

<h4>Let’s take this to the next step:</h4>

How do I make myself valuable?

* Find a “Need”
* Fill that “Need”

In a world of many needs, this can be one of the easiest things to do. It can also be the hardest thing to do, because it means that you must fill the need whatever it may be. It may not necessarily be something you want to do or your passionate about, but that would certainly help.

-

<h4>This leads me to why I decided to take up coding and specifically web development.</h4>

There are many companies that just don’t have much room for growth/movement. It’s just the nature of business. The point of a business is not to create jobs just so employees have a place to move, it just doesn’t work that way.

So employees that are ambitious have just a few options:

* Accept the limitations of your position and stay

* Leave the company for another that has more upward mobility (usually not liked by those who enjoy the company they work for, however it’s a great option if you don’t like you current employer)

* OR *Find a Need* in your current company and *Fill that Need* (this ties back to my original point)

I fancy myself an ambitious person, and I have set some personal goals in regards to my career. I also really like the company I work for and would love to stay as long as possible. The problem is as described above. There just isn’t any room for movement in my position, and that very likely will not change anytime soon.

So what am I to do?

Well our company, like many others, is starting to use and rely on technology and web interfaces to better our customers experience. Things like Online Ordering and such. We are also starting to expand the capabilities and reliance on our internal web sites. This all adds up to one thing… Cost.

Business principals state:

* Reduce costs whenever possible.

To reduce costs it no longer makes sense to use the expensive developers to expand and maintain our sites. Our needs don’t just go away, so we need someone to do the work.

Enter the *“Find a NEED”*

We need someone who knows how to code. They will build and maintain our websites and perhaps other useful things as well. This still costs big money since this is not a common skill-set and rarity raises price.

Enter the *“Fill the NEED”*

Let me preface this with, I never wanted to learn to code…

Ok, so I found a *“Need”*. Now to fill that need, but I don’t know anything about how to do what we are needing. How do I fill the need.

Time to learn to code.

I approach my supervisor with a proposal. If the company will help me learn to code, I will fill the need of the company. We came to an agreement. My company would pay for my coding classes in exchange for a 3 year commitment to stay post completion.

That seems fair! So, lets get started.
